---
layout: single
title: v49 with arity deduction, composable range matchers and runtime times
---

v49 marks the 10 year anniversary of Trompeloeil. The first ever commit to
the repo was on 2014-10-12.

New in v49 are:

10 year anniversary release! 🎉

* Added mocking macros that infers function arity from a trailing return
  type syntax signature.

      MAKE_MOCK(name, signature {, specifiers})
      MAKE_CONST_MOCK(name, signature {, specifiers})
      MAKE_STDMETHOD_MOCK(name, signature {, specifiers})

  Note that these only work with trailing return type syntax. Examples
  of specifiers are override, final and noexcept

  The preprocessor is limited and can only handle nullary functions,
  i.e. functions that do not accept any arguments, in some cases.

  MSVC handles nullary functions when compiling with `/Zc:preprocessor`
  with MSVC 19.40 (VS 17.10) or later.

  Gcc and Clang always handles nullary functions when compiling with
  C++20 or later, and when enabling a gcc extension by compiling with
  `-std=gnu++11/14/17` and defining the macro `TROMPELOEIL_HAS_GCC_PP` before
  `#include`:ing the trompeloeil headers.

* Added `.RT_TIMES()` to exceptations, which works like `.TIMES()`
  but where the limits are only known at runtime. Thank you
  Dominic Koepke for submitting the implementation.

* Added several new composable matchers.

  * range matchers `range_includes(*elements*)`, `range_is(*elements*)`,
    `range_is_permutation(*elements*)`, `range_all_of(*comparator*)`,
    `range_none_of(*comparator*)`, `range_any_of(*comparator*)`,
    `range_starts_with(*elements*)` and `range_ends_with(*elements*)`.

    Use in expectations as:

        REQUIRE_CALL(obj, vector_func(range_starts_with(2,3,5,8)));

  * MEMBER_IS(ptr_to_mem, matcher). Use as:

        REQUIRE_CALL(obj, func(MEMBER_IS(&type::height, gt(5)));

  * `all_of(matchers)`, `any_of(matchers)`, `none_of(matchers)`. Use as:

        REQUIRE_CALL(obj, func(any_of(-1, gt(0))));

  These can be composed like:

        REQUIRE_CALL(obj, func(range_all_of(
                                 any_of(MEMBER_IS(&type::x, -1),
                                        MEMBER_IS(&type::y, gt(0))))));

  Thank you Artem for the suggestion.

* When an expectation is constrained by several `.WITH()` clauses, a
  violation report will only include the first failed condition,
  short cirquiting the logic.

  Example:

      REQUIRE_CALL(obj, func(_))
      .WITH(_1 != nullptr)
      .WITH(*_1 == 0); // would be runtime crash on nullptr access

  Thank you Örjan Gustavsson for the suggestion.
